# CS-340: Client/Server Development - Reflection

## Table of Contents

*   [Reflection](#reflection)

## Reflection

* How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
* How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
* What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Everytime that I write code, the main principles that I follow are to create maintainable, readable, and adaptable code. I believe that it is incredibly important to write code that is easily understood by myself and by anybody else that may be working with it. Having maintainable code helps with the development of additional features, and prevents extended debugging sessions. Furthermore, additional features would not be easily possible without having adaptable code. Utilizing a CRUD Python module to connect dashboard widgets in my final project gave several advantages, such as passing functions from the dashboard, which would then use my Python module to handle data requests within the MongoDB database. In the future, I could see this CRUD Python module being a useful tool in exploring more MongoDB operations, as I have not even begun to cover the scope of what MongoDB is capable of in regard to data management.

As a computer scientist, I approach problems by determining the client needs, and coming up with a plan to determine how I can meet this needs through the use of my programming knowledge. Grazioso Salvare wanted the ability to vizualize animal shelter outcome data, which was achieved by handling documents with MongoDB, utilizing the PyMongo driver to develop my CRUD Python module, and using the Dash framework to provide the view and controller structure for the project. The Dash Leaflet wrapper was used to generate the geolocation chart, using data from a data table generated by the Pandas tool. The Plotly packages were helpful in allowing me to create a visualization of the animal outcome data, including the pie chart widget. My work on this type of project helps companies like Grazioso Salvare focus on their animal rescue efforts, while data is neatly organized and managed through an easy-to-use interface.
